Notice to treating office: This form is to be signed by. your Invisaligno patients prior to treatmenti and kept for your records
and should not be sent to Align Technology, Inc.
INFORMED CONSENT AND
AGREEMENT FOR THE INVISALIGN
PATIENT
Align Technology,



Inc. (888)
822-5446
WWW.INVISALIGN.COM
Invisaligno aligners offer an esthetic alternative to conventional
Patient's Informed Consent and
braces.
Agreement Regarding Invisaligne
Aligners are nearly invisible SO many people won't realize
Orthodontic Treatment
you are in treatment.
Your doctor has recommended the Invisaligne system for your
Treatment plans can be visualized through the
orthodontic treatment. Although orthodontic treatment can
ClinCheck, software.
lead to a healthier and more attractive smile, you should also
Aligners allow for normal brushing and flossing tasks that
be aware that any orthodontic treatment (including orthodontic
are generally impaired by conventional braces.
treatment with Invisalign aligners) has limitations and potential
Aligners do not have the metal wires or brackets
risks that you should consider before undergoing treatment.
associated with conventional braces.
The wearing of aligners may improve oral hygiene
Device Description
habits during treatment.
Invisaligno aligners, developed by Align Technology, Inc.
Invisalign patients may notice improved periodontal
("Align") consist of a series of clear plastic, removable
(gum) health during treatment.
appliances that move your teeth in small increments. Invisalign
products combine your doctor's diagnosis and prescription with
Risks and Inconveniences
sophisticated computer graphics technology to develop a
Like other orthodontic treatments, the use of Invisaligne
treatment plan which specifies the desired movements of your
product(s) may involve some of the risks outlined
teeth during the course of yourt treatment. Upon approval of a
below:
treatment plan developed by your doctor, a series of customized
Invisalign aligners is produced specifically for your treatment.
(i) Failure to wear the appliances for the required number of
hours per day, not using the product as directed by your doctor,
Procedure
missing appointments, and erupting or atypically shaped teeth
You may undergo a routine orthodontic pre-treatment
can lengthen the treatment time and affect the ability to achieve
examination including radiographs (x-rays) and photographs.
the desired results;
Your doctor will take impressions or intra-oral scans of your teeth
(ii) Dental tenderness may be experienced after switching to the
and send them along with a prescription to the Align laboratory.
next aligner in the series;
Align technicians will follow your doctor's prescription: to create a
ClinChecke, software model of your prescribed treatment. Upon
(iil) Gums, cheeks and lips may be scratched or irritated;
approval of the ClinCheck treatment plan by your doctor, Align
will produce and ship a series of customized aligners to your
(iv) Teeth may: shift position after treatment. Consistent wearing
of retainers at the end of treatment: should reduce this
doctor The total number of aligners will vary depending on the
complexity of your malocclusion and the doctor's treatment plan. tendency;
The aligners will be individually numbered and will be dispensed (v) Tooth decay, periodontal disease, inflammation of the gums
to you by your doctor with specific instructions for use. Unless
or permanent markings (e.g. decalcification) may occur if
otherwise instructed by your doctor, you should wear your
patients consume foods or beverages containing sugar, do not
aligners for approximately 20 to 22 hours per day, removing
brush and floss their teeth properly before wearing the
them only to eat, brush and floss.. As directed by your doctor,
Invisalign products, or do not use proper oral hygiene and
you will switch to the next aligner in the series every two to
preventative maintenance;
three weeks. Treatment duration varies depending on the
complexity of your doctor's prescription. Unless instructed
(vi) The aligners may temporarily affect speech and may result in
otherwise, you should follow up with your doctor at a minimum al lisp, although any: speech impediment caused by the
of every 6 to 8 weeks. Some patients may require bonded
Invisalign products should disappear within one or two weeks;
aesthetic attachments and/or the use of elastics during treatment
(vii). Aligners may cause a temporary increase in salivation or
to facilitate specific orthodontic movements. Patients may
mouth dryness and certain medications can heighten this
require additional impressions, or intra-oral scans, and/or
effect;
refinement aligners after thei initial series of aligners.
Benefits



Align Technology,
Inc. (888)
822-5446
WWW.INVISALIGN.COM
(xix) General medical conditions and use of medications
(viii) Attachments may be bonded to one or more teeth
can affect orthodontic treatment;
during the course of treatment to facilitate tooth movement
and/or appliance retention. These will be removed after
(xx) Health of the bone and gums which support the teeth
treatment is completed;
may be impaired or aggravated;
(xxi) Oral surgery may be necessary to correct crowding or
(ix) Attachments may fall off and require replacement.
severe jaw imbalances that are present prior to wearing the
Invisalign product. If oral surgery is required, risks associated
(x) Teeth may require interproximal recontouring or
with anesthesia and proper healing must be taken into account
slenderizing in order to create space needed for dental
prior to treatment;
alignment to occur;
(xxii) A tooth that has been previously traumatized, or
(xi) Thel bite may change throughout the course of
significantly restored may be aggravated. In rare instances
treatment and may result in temporary patient discomfort.
the useful life of the tooth may be reduced, the tooth may
(xii) In rare instances, slight superficial wear of the aligner may
require additional dental treatment such as endodontic and/or
occur where patients may be grinding their teeth or where the
additional restorative work and the tooth may be lost;
teeth may be rubbing and is generally not a problem as
(xxili) Existing dental restorations (e.g. crowns) may become
overall aligner integrity and strength remain intact.
dislodged and require re-cementation or in some instances,
(xiii). At the end of orthodontic treatment, the bite may
replacement;
require adjustment ("occlusal adjustment").
(xxiv) Short clinical crowns can pose appliance retention issues
(xiv). Atypically-shaped, erupting, and/or missing teeth may
and inhibit tooth movement;
affect aligner adaptation and may affect the ability to achieve
(xxv) Thel length of the roots of the teeth may be shortened
the desired results.
during orthodontic treatment and may become a threat to
(xv) Treatment of severe open bite, severe overjet, mixed
the useful life of teeth;
dentition, and/or skeletally narrowj jaw may require supplemental
(xxvi) Product breakage is more likely in patients with
treatment in addition to aligner treatment.
severe crowding and/or multiple missing teeth;
(xvi) Supplemental orthodontic treatment, including the use
(xxvii) Orthodontic appliances or parts thereof may be
of bonded buttons, orthodontic elastics, auxiliary
accidentally swallowed or aspirated;
appliances/ dental devices (e.g. temporary anchorage
devices, sectional
(xxvili) In rare instances, problems may also occur in the jaw
fixed appliances), and/or restorative dental procedures may be
joint, causing joint pain, headaches or ear problems;
needed for more complicated treatment plans where aligners
alone may not be adequate to achieve the desired outcome.
(xxix) Allergic reactions may occur; and
(xxx) Teeth that are not at least partially covered the
Teeth
by
(xvii)
which havel been overlapped for long periods of
time may be missing the gingival tissue below the interproximal aligner may undergo supraeruption;
contact once the teeth are aligned, leading to the appearance of (xxxi) In rare instances patients with hereditary angioedema
a "black triangle" space.
(HAE), a genetic disorder, may experience rapid local swelling of
subcutaneous tissues including the larynx. HAE may be
(xviii) Aligners are not effective in the movement of
triggered mild stimuli including dental
dental implants.
by
procedures.



Align Technology,
Inc. (888)
822-5446
WWW.INVISALIGN.COM
Date
Informed Consent
impressions of teeth, or intra-oral scans, prescriptions, diagnosis,
I have been given adequate time to read and have read the
medical testing, test results, billing, and other treatment records
preceding information describing orthodontic treatment with
in my doctor's possession ("Medical Records") (i) to other
Invisalign aligners. I understand the benefits, risks, alternatives
licensed dentists or orthodontists and organizations employing
and inconveniences associated with treatment as well as the
licensed dentists and orthodontists and to Align, its
option of no treatment. I have been sufficiently informed and
representatives, employees, successors, assigns, and agents for
have had the opportunity to ask questions and discuss concerns the purposes of investigating and reviewing my medical history
about orthodontic treatment with Invisaligno products with my
as it pertains to orthodontic treatment with product(s) from Align
doctor from whom li intend to receive treatment. I understand
and (i) for educational and research purposes.
thatl Is should only use the Invisalign products after consultation
and
from
I understand that use of my Medical Records may result in
prescription an Invisalign trained doctor, and I hereby
disclosure of my "individually identifiable health information" as
consent to orthodontic treatment with Invisalign products that
defined by the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability
have been prescribed by my doctor.
Act ("HIPAA").1 hereby consent to the disclosure(s) as set forth
Due to the fact that orthodontics is not an exact science, I
above. I will not, nor: shall anyone on my behalf seek legal,
acknowledge that my doctor and Align Technology, Inc.
equitable or monetary damages or remedies for such disclosure.
("Align") have not and cannot make any guarantees or
I acknowledge that use of my Medical Records is without
assurances concerning the outcome of my treatment. I
compensation and that I will not nor shall anyone on my behalf
understand that Align is not a provider of medical, dental or
have any right of approval, claim of compensation, or seek or
health care services and does not and cannot practice medicine, obtain legal, equitable or monetary damages or remedies arising
dentistry or give medical advice. No assurances or guarantees
out of any use such that comply with the terms of this Consent.
of any kind have been made to me by my doctor or Align, its
A photostatic copy of this Consent shall be considered as
representatives, successors, assigns, and agents concerning any
effective and valid as an original. I have read, understand and
specific outcome of my treatment.
agree to the terms set forth in this Consent as indicated by
la authorize my doctor to release my medical records,
my signature below.
including, but not be limited to, radiographs (x-rays), reports,
charts, medical history, photographs, findings, plaster
models,
Witness
Signature
Print Name
Print Name
Signature off Parent/Guardian:
Address
City, State, Zip
Ifsignatoryi isu under 21, thep parent orl legal Guardian musta also sign tos signify agreement.



Align Technology, Inc.
(888) 822-5446
WWW.INVISALIGN.COM
02 2013 Align Technology, Inc. All rights reserved. F16015 RevE