--- Page 1 ---
Notice to treating office: This form is to be signed by your Invisalign® patients prior to treatment and kept for your records
and should not be sent to Align Technology, Inc.
INFORMED CONSENT AND
AGREEMENT FOR THE INVISALIGN
PATIENT
Align Technology,

--- Page 2 ---
Inc. (888)
822-5446
WWW.INVISALIGN.COM
INFORMED CONSENT AND AGREEMENT FOR THE INVISALIGN PATIENT 1 of 3
Patient’s Informed Consent and
Agreement Regarding Invisalign®
Orthodontic Treatment
Your doctor has recommended the Invisalign® system for your
orthodontic treatment. Although orthodontic treatment can
lead to a healthier and more attractive smile, you should also
be aware that any orthodontic treatment (including orthodontic
treatment with Invisalign aligners) has limitations and potential
risks that you should consider before undergoing treatment.
Device Description
Invisalign® aligners, developed by Align Technology, Inc.
(“Align”) consist of a series of clear plastic, removable
appliances that move your teeth in small increments. Invisalign
products combine your doctor’s diagnosis and prescription with
sophisticated computer graphics technology to develop a
treatment plan which specifies the desired movements of your
teeth during the course of your treatment. Upon approval of a
treatment plan developed by your doctor, a series of customized
Invisalign aligners is produced specifically for your treatment.
Procedure
You may undergo a routine orthodontic pre-treatment
examination including radiographs (x-rays) and photographs.
Your doctor will take impressions or intra-oral scans of your teeth
and send them along with a prescription to the Align laboratory.
Align technicians will follow your doctor’s prescription to create a
ClinCheck® software model of your prescribed treatment. Upon
approval of the ClinCheck treatment plan by your doctor, Align
will produce and ship a series of customized aligners to your
doctor. The total number of aligners will vary depending on the
complexity of your malocclusion and the doctor’s treatment plan.
The aligners will be individually numbered and will be dispensed
to you by your doctor with specific instructions for use. Unless
otherwise instructed by your doctor, you should wear your
aligners for approximately 20 to 22 hours per day, removing
them only to eat, brush and floss. As directed by your doctor,
you will switch to the next aligner in the series every two to
three weeks. Treatment duration varies depending on the
complexity of your doctor’s prescription. Unless instructed
otherwise, you should follow up with your doctor at a minimum
of every 6 to 8 weeks. Some patients may require bonded
aesthetic attachments and/or the use of elastics during treatment
to facilitate specific orthodontic movements. Patients may
require additional impressions, or intra-oral scans, and/or
refinement aligners after the initial series of aligners.
Benefits
• Invisalign® aligners offer an esthetic alternative to conventional
braces.
• Aligners are nearly invisible so many people won’t realize
you are in treatment.
• Treatment plans can be visualized through the
ClinCheck® software.
• Aligners allow for normal brushing and flossing tasks that
are generally impaired by conventional braces.
• Aligners do not have the metal wires or brackets
associated with conventional braces.
• The wearing of aligners may improve oral hygiene
habits during treatment.
• Invisalign patients may notice improved periodontal
(gum) health during treatment.
Risks and Inconveniences
Like other orthodontic treatments, the use of Invisalign®
product(s) may involve some of the risks outlined
below:
(i) Failure to wear the appliances for the required number of
hours per day, not using the product as directed by your doctor,
missing appointments, and erupting or atypically shaped teeth
can lengthen the treatment time and affect the ability to achieve
the desired results;
(ii) Dental tenderness may be experienced after switching to the
next aligner in the series;
(iii) Gums, cheeks and lips may be scratched or irritated;
(iv) Teeth may shift position after treatment. Consistent wearing
of retainers at the end of treatment should reduce this
tendency;
(v) Tooth decay, periodontal disease, inflammation of the gums
or permanent markings (e.g. decalcification) may occur if
patients consume foods or beverages containing sugar, do not
brush and floss their teeth properly before wearing the
Invisalign products, or do not use proper oral hygiene and
preventative maintenance;
(vi) The aligners may temporarily affect speech and may result in
a lisp, although any speech impediment caused by the
Invisalign products should disappear within one or two weeks;
(vii) Aligners may cause a temporary increase in salivation or
mouth dryness and certain medications can heighten this
effect;

--- Page 3 ---
Align Technology,
Inc. (888)
822-5446
WWW.INVISALIGN.COM
INFORMED CONSENT AND AGREEMENT FOR THE INVISALIGN PATIENT 2 of 3
(viii) Attachments may be bonded to one or more teeth
during the course of treatment to facilitate tooth movement
and/or appliance retention. These will be removed after
treatment is completed;
(ix) Attachments may fall off and require replacement.
(x) Teeth may require interproximal recontouring or
slenderizing in order to create space needed for dental
alignment to occur;
(xi) The bite may change throughout the course of
treatment and may result in temporary patient discomfort.
(xii) In rare instances, slight superficial wear of the aligner may
occur where patients may be grinding their teeth or where the
teeth may be rubbing and is generally not a problem as
overall aligner integrity and strength remain intact.
(xiii) At the end of orthodontic treatment, the bite may
require adjustment (“occlusal adjustment”).
(xiv) Atypically-shaped, erupting, and/or missing teeth may
affect aligner adaptation and may affect the ability to achieve
the desired results.
(xv) Treatment of severe open bite, severe overjet, mixed
dentition, and/or skeletally narrow jaw may require supplemental
treatment in addition to aligner treatment.
(xvi) Supplemental orthodontic treatment, including the use
of bonded buttons, orthodontic elastics, auxiliary
appliances/ dental devices (e.g. temporary anchorage
devices, sectional
fixed appliances), and/or restorative dental procedures may be
needed for more complicated treatment plans where aligners
alone may not be adequate to achieve the desired outcome.
(xvii) Teeth which have been overlapped for long periods of
time may be missing the gingival tissue below the interproximal
contact once the teeth are aligned, leading to the appearance of
a “black triangle” space.
(xviii) Aligners are not effective in the movement of
dental implants.
(xix) General medical conditions and use of medications
can affect orthodontic treatment;
(xx) Health of the bone and gums which support the teeth
may be impaired or aggravated;
(xxi) Oral surgery may be necessary to correct crowding or
severe jaw imbalances that are present prior to wearing the
Invisalign product. If oral surgery is required, risks associated
with anesthesia and proper healing must be taken into account
prior to treatment;
(xxii) A tooth that has been previously traumatized, or
significantly restored may be aggravated. In rare instances
the useful life of the tooth may be reduced, the tooth may
require additional dental treatment such as endodontic and/or
additional restorative work and the tooth may be lost;
(xxiii) Existing dental restorations (e.g. crowns) may become
dislodged and require re-cementation or in some instances,
replacement;
(xxiv) Short clinical crowns can pose appliance retention issues
and inhibit tooth movement;
(xxv) The length of the roots of the teeth may be shortened
during orthodontic treatment and may become a threat to
the useful life of teeth;
(xxvi) Product breakage is more likely in patients with
severe crowding and/or multiple missing teeth;
(xxvii) Orthodontic appliances or parts thereof may be
accidentally swallowed or aspirated;
(xxviii) In rare instances, problems may also occur in the jaw
joint, causing joint pain, headaches or ear problems;
(xxix) Allergic reactions may occur; and
(xxx) Teeth that are not at least partially covered by the
aligner may undergo supraeruption;
(xxxi) In rare instances patients with hereditary angioedema
(HAE), a genetic disorder, may experience rapid local swelling of
subcutaneous tissues including the larynx. HAE may be
triggered by mild stimuli including dental procedures.

--- Page 4 ---
Align Technology,
Inc. (888)
822-5446
WWW.INVISALIGN.COM
INFORMED CONSENT AND AGREEMENT FOR THE INVISALIGN PATIENT 3 of 3
Informed Consent
I have been given adequate time to read and have read the
preceding information describing orthodontic treatment with
Invisalign aligners. I understand the benefits, risks, alternatives
and inconveniences associated with treatment as well as the
option of no treatment. I have been sufficiently informed and
have had the opportunity to ask questions and discuss concerns
about orthodontic treatment with Invisalign® products with my
doctor from whom I intend to receive treatment. I understand
that I should only use the Invisalign products after consultation
and prescription from an Invisalign trained doctor, and I hereby
consent to orthodontic treatment with Invisalign products that
have been prescribed by my doctor.
Due to the fact that orthodontics is not an exact science, I
acknowledge that my doctor and Align Technology, Inc.
(“Align”) have not and cannot make any guarantees or
assurances concerning the outcome of my treatment. I
understand that Align is not a provider of medical, dental or
health care services and does not and cannot practice medicine,
dentistry or give medical advice. No assurances or guarantees
of any kind have been made to me by my doctor or Align, its
representatives, successors, assigns, and agents concerning any
specific outcome of my treatment.
I authorize my doctor to release my medical records,
including, but not be limited to, radiographs (x-rays), reports,
charts, medical history, photographs, findings, plaster
models,
Signature
Print Name
Address
City, State, Zip
Date
impressions of teeth, or intra-oral scans, prescriptions, diagnosis,
medical testing, test results, billing, and other treatment records
in my doctor’s possession (“Medical Records”) (i) to other
licensed dentists or orthodontists and organizations employing
licensed dentists and orthodontists and to Align, its
representatives, employees, successors, assigns, and agents for
the purposes of investigating and reviewing my medical history
as it pertains to orthodontic treatment with product(s) from Align
and (ii) for educational and research purposes.
I understand that use of my Medical Records may result in
disclosure of my “individually identifiable health information” as
defined by the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability
Act (“HIPAA”). I hereby consent to the disclosure(s) as set forth
above. I will not, nor shall anyone on my behalf seek legal,
equitable or monetary damages or remedies for such disclosure.
I acknowledge that use of my Medical Records is without
compensation and that I will not nor shall anyone on my behalf
have any right of approval, claim of compensation, or seek or
obtain legal, equitable or monetary damages or remedies arising
out of any use such that comply with the terms of this Consent.
A photostatic copy of this Consent shall be considered as
effective and valid as an original. I have read, understand and
agree to the terms set forth in this Consent as indicated by
my signature below.
Witness
Print Name
Signature of Parent/Guardian:
If signatory is under 21, the parent or legal Guardian must also sign to signify agreement.

--- Page 5 ---
Align Technology, Inc.
(888) 822-5446
WWW.INVISALIGN.COM
© 2013 Align Technology, Inc. All rights reserved. | F16015 Rev E