PARKWOOD DENTAL
a
OSCAR HERNANDEZ, JR. D.M.D.
Extraction Consent
The benefits of extraction (removal of teeth) have been explained to me. I understand that surgical extraction may be
necessary. Referral to a specialist (oral surgeon) has been offered. Proposed fees have been explained to me, including
any third party insurance benefits. I understand that third party benefits may be different than discussed, as they are not
under the control of this office.
The doctor has explained the indication (dental/medical rationale) for the extraction(s). I understand that allowing
impacted teeth to remain may result in an infection and/or cyst formation, which may destroy bone; damage the roots of
neighboring teeth; and/or create a food trap which will lead to decay. Allowing a tooth with infection to remain in the
mouth can lead to the infection spreading systemically- in severe cases, an untreated tooth infection can turn fatal.
Antibiotics alone are not sufficient to get rid of a tooth-borne abscess.
I understand that there may be unwanted complications during or after the procedure. No guarantees can be made or
implied. Treatment risks may include (but are not limited to):
Adverse reaction to medications/anesthetic
Temporary or permanent numbness or tingling of the lips, chin, tongue, or other areas
Post treatment bleeding, infection and/or swelling that can lead to "lock-jaw" or difficulty opening jaw
Root fragment and jaw/alveolar bone fracture
Sinus involvement (from upper teeth EXTS)
Delayed healing, post-operative infection (dry socket)
Sensitivity and/or pain
Damage to nearby teeth or crowns
The doctor will make every effort to avoid these complications. Medical history must be accurate and current, and
post-operative instructions need to be strictly followed to limit the risks involved with surgery. Alternative treatment
(including the option of no treatment) has been explained to me. I understand the risks of not having extractions
performed include (but are not limited to): infection, swelling, pain, gum disease, malocclusion, and systemic disease.
PATIENT CONSENT: I,
(print name) have been fully informed of the surgery
to be performed. I understand the risks and benefits of the procedure, alternative treatments, and the necessity for
follow-up and self care. I understand the potential outcome of not undergoing treatment. I am aware that additional
treatment may be necessary. I have had an opportunity to ask my doctor any questions, all of which have been answered
to my satisfaction.
Patient Signature
Date
Provider Signature
Date
Witness Signature
Date
ParkwoodDental.us
941.753.1432
info@parkwooddental.us